

# News/Feeds Quality

We currently train on clicks.


- We can only learn to show more of *what we already show*.
- If we show spammy stuff, and it gets clicks, then we will show more spammy stuff.
- It is made worse because there is no "discount". 
  - If we show SPAM at position 1, and you click, we show more SPAM
  - If we show tesla new at position 20, and you click, we show more
  - But they count the same.


So our online metrics, and our training framework, pushes us toward showing more SPAM.

- We have incentives to show SPAMMY things.
  - Galleries are SPAMMY,  and they generate more money/engagement
  - But are they truly relevant


The funnel

- How to convert light users to heavy users.
- How to convert non-users to light users.



# Improve AA's in WebXT

The tradeoff.  Hiring quality vs. agility.

Establishing a high and consistent bar in our hiring is will require discipline and
processes.

## Amazon hiring process

Amazon has a very disciplined hiring process.  It forms a back stop against the high
pressure to grow and to deliver results (and high turnover leads to constant hiring
needs even when there is little growth).  Without a strong and consistent process
some teams would hire haphazardly.

The core of the process is that every loop has a "bar raiser".  Bar raiser is a
seasoned interviewer (50+ interviews) and a company veteran (3+ years) with strong
reviews (what is called a role model).  BR's have a community, mailing lists, and
regular meetings.  Candidates are put forward by there VPs and they are first
trained, and then they become a BRIT (BR in training) where they first shadow a BR
and then take the lead with an official BR attending.  BR's are almost
always outside the management chain, ensuring objectivity and consistency.  This
usually means that they do not work for the same Director or VP (essentially a
different engineering manager than the HM).

A BR interviews more than 50 people a year, and as many as 100. Ultimately this takes
about 10-20% of the BR's time.  The BR's manager is 100% engaged with this and is
generally supportive.  If all else looks good for a BR's review (say high end of
120%), then the review is often "rounded up" to account for the extra time required
(say 140% with a transparent acknowledgement that this is rewarded).  Low performers
are first removed as BR's.

After every interview the HM and interviewers get a poll to evaluate the recruiting
process, the recruiter and the BR.

There is a small team HR/PM (company wide) that manage's the BR program.  In theory it all
could be automated, but as changes roll out they ensure that folks are updates.  They
create reports for VPs that show number of BR's, and push on VPs to nominate
additional BR's. 

BR's make the final hiring decisions, though most often agree with the hiring loop
and hiring manager.  They can both veto a hire and rescue a hire if the loop was not
operating well or in a disciplined fashion.

BR's chair a 30 minute pre-brief meeting and a 30 minute de-brief.  In the pre-brief
the HM describes the role and tentatively assigns competencies (HM likely knows the
interviewers best and the needs).  BR approves and adjusts these assignments to
ensure they meet standards.  For very senior candidates, complex roles, or split
loops (with multiple teams) there may be 6 interviews (but most are 5).  One key is
that the candidate get the right level of interview, and the BR likley has more
experience than the hiring manager (a principal manager may only hire 2-3 principals
a years, the BR will likely interview dozens).


## Motivation

WebXT is growing rapidly.  And we need to hire the best people.

Currently there is clear evidence that hiring loops have inconsistent standards.
Some loops are not

## Notes from Mikhail

- Identify 5 AA trainers.  They shadow a bunch of the AAs, to help (re-)train them
  and if that does not work remove AAs from the list.

- We need to communicate to the HM's that we need to recruit and train more AA's.

- We use external interview process for all internal candidates (since we can't get
  reviews).

- Teams are naturally motivated to create AA's because they can't hire without them.
  But they are not motivated to ensure we are keeping a high bar.

- There are not enough AA's so there will be AA's from other teams on some interviews
  have AAs from other teams.  Not sure how this works.


- Not clear if he agrees that AA should be outside the management change.
  - The room use the the term "other ORG".  We need to be clearer about how far up
    the chain we need to go.  Do we mean other CVP?  Or different CVP direct?  Etc.
    - Simpler: you need to go up to another CVP or CVP direct.



## WebXT hiring process

WebXT is transforming its existing products and expanding into new areas.  To power
this massive effort we must hire a large number of high quality engineers.
Additionally, WebXT engineers are in strong demand in industry, as a result there
will be attrition.  These short term pressures incentize rapid hiring over the
quality hiring required for long term sucess.

While there is broad term awareness of these issues, the existing training, tools,
and processes are not resulting in consistent high quality in our interviews.  In a
sample of interview feedback, there are many examples of inconsistent standards and
poor quality feedback.

As a result we will move to a more disciplined hiring process which will ensure a
consistent high bar across our many teams.  There are two parts of this effort, a
re-conception of the "as appropriate" role as well as a clear set of requirements for
interviews at every level.

The core of the process is that every loop will include an "approved as appropriate"
(or AAA).  An AAA is specially trained seasoned interviewer (50+ interviews) and a
company veteran (3+ years) with strong reviews (120+).  Additionally AAA's should be
visible role models within our ORG.  In any interview, AAA's make the final hiring
decisions, though most often agree with the hiring loop and hiring manager.  They can
both veto a hire and rescue a hire if the loop was not operating well or in an
undisciplined fashion.

AAA's will act as a community, including regular meetings and discussions of issues
that arise and resolutions.  AAA candidates are put forward by their VPs.  Accepted
candidates receive training and then they become an AAA-IT (AAA in training).  An
AAA-IT first shadows a AAA for 5 interview and they
the take the lead for 5 additonal interviews with an official AAA observing.  

In any hiring loop the AAA is outside the immediate management chain, ensuring
objectivity and consistency.  By interviewing outside their ORGs they directly
observe and ensure the standards used in peer organizations.  AAA's cannot work for
the same level 3 manager or VP.

An AAA interviews more than 50 people a year, and as many as 100. Ultimately this
takes about 10-20% of the AAA's time.  The AAA's manager is 100% engaged with this
and provides the necessary flexibility.  AAA's are strong performers, and will
typically receive 120 or greater for their contributions, when appropriate the review
will be "rounded up" to account for the extra time required.  Low performers are
(temporarily) removed from the AAA program.  Managers are responsible for informing
the AAA program if an AAA begins to fall below expectations.

The AAA program is led by 5 Master AAA's.  These are very strong leaders, with 5+
years acting as an AAA, L65+ with (including least one partner), ideally one from
each CVP ORG.  These folks lead the overall program, review feedback on AAA's and
HM's, and shadow the AAA's at random (or more if they are struggling).  They review
all escalations and are available to mediate if there are strong disagreements or
concerns. They participate in new AAA training and lead broad conversations about
issues that arise.  They make the decisions on changes in processes.

A small team of HR/Recruiting/PM coordinates the AAA program working closely with the
Master AAA's.  This team reviews changes and operations for consistency with
Microsoft policies.  They schedule and organize trainings.  They create reports for
VPs that show number of AAA's, and push on VPs to nominate additional AAA's.  The
keep a spreadsheet of all recruiting, and provide this information to the Master
AAA's to ensure the process is healthy (for example are some AAA's handling far more
interviews).  They collect and report information about interviewers, HMs, and AAAs.

AAA's chair a 30 minute pre-brief meeting and a 30 minute de-brief.  In the pre-brief
the HM describes the role and tentatively assigns competencies (HM likely knows the
interviewers best and the needs).  AAA approves and adjusts these assignments to
ensure they meet standards.  For very senior candidates, complex roles, or split
loops (with multiple teams) there may be 6 interviews (but most are 5).  One key is
that the candidate get the right level of interview, and the AAA likley has more
experience than the hiring manager (a principal manager may only hire 2-3 principals
a years, the AAA will likely interview dozens).

After every interview the HM and interviewers get a poll to evaluate the recruiting
process, the recruiter, and the AAA.  Additionally the HM gets a poll on the AAA and
the AAA writes clear feedback on the overall process, and short feedback on each
interviewer.  Strong negative AAA feedback must "cleared" by meeting either with the
AAA, additoinal training, or a meeting with a Master AAA.


